[DOC] README: Revise for new Consulting blog flow & general edits (#704)
Quansight/Quansight-website: README.md

  - `./libs` holds code shared by both websites.
- The websites' **content** lives in [Storyblok](https://app.storyblok.com)
  (requires login).
  - But Labs and Consulting **blog posts** live under `./apps/labs/posts` and
    `./apps/consulting/posts`, respectively.
- **Static content** for each site lives under `./apps/labs/public` and
  `./apps/consulting/public`, respectively.

>   - The `public` path element is removed when the site is built: for example, a

Author: I've seen it ~50/50 with `/static` being the magic folder name for static content. It took me a decent while with the codebase to realize it was doing the same thing.

   `develop` branch.
   - Consider doing a
     [squash-merge](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/incorporating-changes-from-a-pull-request/about-pull-request-merges#squash-and-merge-your-pull-request-commits),

>      except if your pull request is relatively small, to keep a

Author: Good point -- so, I'd think we'd want to squash all merges to `develop`, then.

My reasoning for squashing aggressively is because we're working on GitHub, where the original chain of commits is retained in the closed PR, even when what gets merged to the base branch is a single squash.

It has the benefit of clean base branch history, while still retaining the full arc of the work process in the PR.

So, I'm inclined to strengthen this to something like "Please use GitHub's squash-merge functionality for all PRs to `develop`."

---

For merges to `main`, since release/hotfix branches can have weird history topology (e.g., a release gets hotfixed, then merges to `main`, then merges to `develop`) that would be hard to follow if it got squash-merged to either `main` or `develop`, I'm inclined to do simple commit merges there.

>      except if your pull request is relatively small, to keep a

Author: I'll write out my case in a new commit here, see what you think on your next review pass.

>      except if your pull request is relatively small, to keep a

Reviewer: +1 to all of that

any potential code/content conflicts before merging to `main`.

When viewing the site in local development or at a Vercel preview URL, there

> should be a gray or yellow banner that indicates that you are looking at a

Author: This PR was opened well before that change in language. I'll need to rebase/merge from `develop` & deal with any conflicts before this is ready to merge.

> should be a gray or yellow banner that indicates that you are looking at a

Author: `develop` merged in, conflicts fixed, and straggling instances of "banner" converted to "overlay" in this branch.

Should be taken care of on next commit.

preview of the site. This helps reduce confusion when screenshots are shared.
This banner should not be present on a production build of the site.

The preview/development environment banner should allow the user to toggle
between seeing published versus draft/saved Storyblok content. The banner should
change colors to indicate which of the two content preview modes the user is in

> (that is, whether they are seeing draft (yellow banner) or published (gray

Author: Changed, will show in next commit.

> banner) content from Storyblok).

Author: Same

3. Create the data retrieval function in the `/apps/.../api/utils` folder using the
   function, type, and hook created by the code gen script.

## GitHub-based blog workflow (Labs and Consulting blogs) 💻

> All the blog posts for **both websites** are located inside `./apps/labs/posts`

Author: Will be de-emphasized in next commit.

and `./apps/consulting/posts`, and therefore, any new posts _must_ be added to
these same folders.

> **Note**
> For now, all posts should be
> contributed using a branch-and-merge strategy within the website repo itself,
> instead of a fork-and-merge strategy. This may change in the future.

Every post is a `.md` or [`.mdx` file](https://mdxjs.com/docs/using-mdx/). For
more details about `.mdx` please see:

- <https://mdxjs.com/>
- <https://github.com/hashicorp/next-mdx-remote>

Each `posts` directory also contains a `categories.json` file
([Labs file](./apps/labs/posts/categories.json) and
[Consulting file](./apps/consulting/posts/categories.json)) containing the post
categories. The formats of these `categories.json` files are currently **not**
the same:

- For the Labs blog, `categories.json` is an array of case-sensitive strings.

>   These strings are used:
>   - As-is in the rendered category list on the main `/blog` page
>   - In a custom slugified format (spaces replaced with `+`) when filtering
>     `/blog` by category
>     - For example, the category `"Beyond PyData"` is slugified as
>       `"Beyond+PyData`"
>     - This category filter is currently **case-sensitive**—URLs with mismatched
>       case in the `category` query parameter will return **no results**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - These strings appear as-is in the list of categories on the main `/blog` page.
  - When filtering `/blog` by category, they appear in a slugified format (spaces replaced with `+`), for example: `/blog?category=Beyond+PyData
  - Since these are case-sensitive, if a blog post includes a category with incorrect case in its metadata, then it will not show up under that category. And in the other direction, if the `category`  query parameter has incorrect case, it will return no results.
```

- For the Consulting blog, `categories.json` is a list of objects, where each
  object has two `string` properties:
  - `name`
    - Should be written with natural capitalization and whitespace
    - Used as-is (case and whitespace sensitive, and _without_ surrounding quotes) in the post `category` metadata field to associate a
      post with one or more categories
    - Converted to all caps for use in the category-selection dropdown on the
      `/library` page
  - `value`
    - Should be written in slugified form and in all lowercase
      - NOTE: Currently one category, `Infrastructure & HPC`, has a capitalized
        `value` due to an oversight. We plan to fix this.
    - Used as-is (**case sensitive**) in the `category` query parameter to
      `/library`—URLs with mismatched case in the `category` query parameter

>       will return **no results**

Reviewer: Is this level of detail appropriate here. I know, I know, this whole README is overly detailed. But honestly, this explanation of the `categories.json` files makes my head spin. I hate the fact that JSON doesn't support comments.

I think this is valuable information. I'm just wondering if we could expose it somewhere more useful. Maybe not. Just wondering.

I think what this section is really screaming is that we need to simplify/fix the system. So maybe it would make sense to move all of this detail into an issue and link to the issue from the README?

### Adding a new blog post 📝

> > **Note** If there is a deadline or other timing consideration for the

Reviewer: Good note

> publication of your post, **please coordinate actively** with the Marketing
> team (currently @Katebrack and @bskinn) and the website ops team
> (#qwebsite-ops channel on Slack) from as early as possible to ensure we can
> meet your requirements.

1. Create a new feature branch off of the `develop` branch. Example:
   `<site>-blog/new-hello-world-post`.
2. Add post images (feature, hero, and any for the post body) to
   `apps/<site>/public/posts/<post-name>`.

> 3. Add a new `.md|.mdx` file inside the `app/<site>/posts` directory. Make sure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add a new `.mdx` file inside the `app/<site>/posts` directory. Make sure
```

As I mentioned in my other note, we should forget `.md`. It's especially misleading because in normal Markdown you can create code blocks but ["indented code does not work in MDX."](https://mdxjs.com/docs/what-is-mdx/#markdown)

Author: I think all of the posts for both blogs are `.md` files. Should we rename them? Not great to have the churn in the file history.

If nothing else, any blogs not yet on `develop` should be renamed to `.mdx`?

Author: If it would be good to rename the `.md` blog source files to `.mdx`, a good time to do that might be as part of #746, since we're touching all those files to add the categories `[]` anyways?

Author: I made this change locally, will reflect on next push

   to read the
   [Structure of the blog post section](#structure-of-the-blog-post) in this
   file to ensure that the post is properly structured.
4. Commit and push your changes to the repository. For commits please follow the

>    format of the conventional commit. See the
>    [Conventional Commits docs](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   [Conventional Commit format](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/).
```

I didn't actually know about this until today 😅

Author: Made this change in both places it appears. Also capitalized 'Conventional Commit' in the flow of text, both places.

5. Create a pull request to the `develop` branch. Make sure to add the
   `type: content 📝`, `owner: Quansight`, and either `labs 🔭` or
   `consulting 🤝` labels to the PR.
6. Wait for someone on the website team to review the new blog post. If
   everything is ok, the PR will be merged to the `develop` branch. The blog

>    post will then go live with the next site build (merge to `main`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   post will then go live with the next production deployment (merge to `main`).
```

Since "production deployment" is the language that Vercel uses

### Adding a new blog category

> 1. Create a new feature branch.

Author: I'm solidly +1 to this, new categories only being created when posts are created that need them. I'll rewrite a draft for you to review.

Related, see #713.

2. Open the `apps/<site>/posts/categories.json` file.
3. Add a new category/category object to the array. Make sure to follow the same
   format as the other categories.
4. Commit and push your changes to the repository. For commits please follow the

>    format of the conventional commit.
>    See the
>    [Conventional Commits docs](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   [Conventional Commits format](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/).
```
